If you think about the cars of the eastern european sector, such cars will come
to your mind: Dacias, Zastavas, Ladas in a very poor shape at a "MERKUR" car depot.
However, you would defenetly not think on two words:
exotic, and V8 engine.
Well, on this little hole, there is a V8, that is breathing,
an 1971 built Tatra 603's V8 engine.
Tatra, made in Czechslovakia, not Czech Republic,
Czechslovakia
Yes, it's a socialist car a bit
Let's count:
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
8 cylinders, air cooling, in the rear!
This is really exotic, for real!
This is an almost flat bolster
one piece of the professional aerodynamic planning.
Which they started to use at the Tatra from the early '30s,
before anybody else.
And this is the 2nd generation Tatra 603 nose
This is why it has 4 headlights, not 3 with 1 in the middle,
like in the 1st generation Tatras.
Which was under a plexi cover.
And it's just because for the air could run more smoothly
around the most beautiful shape of the socialism.
Finaly, not a car, that steals american design,
this has a pure, genuine design.
In those times there was plenty of chrome.
They mined a lot in the eastern block too.
Tatra is long as the new BMW 7series or Mercedes S or Opel Omega
so this is a very huge car.
I'll measure it: The front is not long,
because there's nothing interesting in it.
The interior is very big,
there's a lot of room inside
And behind the rear axle is the engine room,
with the air cooled V8 inside!
Dictatorship is an excellent thing,
if you ranked high enough,
because you can sit in the back of a Tatra,
and find intresting little details.
For example the hooks
and roof lamp
In those times they could make
this nice pieces.
When they don't have to make everything
from cheap plastic.
And the well-made armrest with the little
"door" that fits in the hole
Just because to hide
the ugly hole.
You can't see this in todays modern
luxury cars.
Big time of my life has come, Ferrari, Rolls, Porsche
is one thing, but a Tatra, is a Tatra.
Let's go, curiosity kills me.
So, away and up. (1st gear)
And handbrake.
Turn it a bit and release.
Not bad sound, and not bad acceleration either,
105 HP, and top speed of 160 Km/h.
The ride is smooth, and suprisingly, it is very stable -
not like some US cars, because the conscientious czech engineers made it so.
undercarriage is ment to be smooth at the first,
so the bit boat feeling is not a problem.
On long distance rallyes the had very good results,
and had even won a few.
This car is about beeing the coolest in the Polical life,
and about excellent riding.
No steering servo, but we have brake servo,
and with all this, it isnt hard to drive the car.
The very good thing is that it has excellent dynamics...
...in third gear, you step on the pedal,
and it accelerates very distinct.
Talking about beeing a rater modern car: we have 4 disc brakes
which is unusual in eastern europe
We're going with 70 Km/h, and we're
travelling in a traveller limousine.
it's strong as a heavy weight boxer,
not like an athlete.
At 90Km/h, it does 12l on 100km, on long distance
aprox 10-11l, in city above 20l. - But its a V8...
Everything is great,
and I love it.
I feel sadness, because I have to give it back,
and of course I'm very jealous. I just want one.
I think I always wanted a Tatra.
BMW M5 s...
boxsters, Ferraris...
Just plastic toys.
Air cooling, rear engine,
V8, Tatra. Give it to me.
A feliratban való segítségért thx
KonkolyD-nek.:)